= Pushr

Deploy Rails applications by Github Post-Receive URLs launching Capistrano's tasks (<tt>cap deploy</tt>, <tt>cap staging deploy</tt>) or by pushing button in web GUI and get notifications by Twitter, IRC or Jabber.

Why? Because my friend Machal still cannot fix Capistrano on his Windows box and can now deploy with _GitGUI_.
(No need to launch "DOS" for him when only thing he did is fixing some CSS or updating some assets.)

Currently runs deployment for about 5 Rails apps.

== What?

Pushr assumes this:

* You deploy a Rails application with Capistrano in standard settings
* You have a "deploy" branch in your repo, which you deploy on production (and possibly deploy "master" on staging)
* You have installed Capistrano et al. on the server you are deploying
* You have a <tt>deploy.rb</tt> in your repository (and use SSH keys! you should!) or symlink <tt>deploy.rb</tt>
* You are willing and able to run a Ruby application open to teh internet on the same machine as your Rails application
* You are not anxiously awaiting how the <tt>cap deploy</tt> task ends. You just check the results from time to time.
* You have tests for your application and you run them in Capistrano <tt>before</tt> hook (so you don't end up deploying breakz)
* You have set a <i>post-receive</i> hook for your repository, calling specific URL. See section below for Github guide.

Pushr calls Capistrano's deploy task specified in <tt>config.yml</tt> (or <tt>deploy:migrations</tt> by default)
whenever you push to the repository with the hook.

You can also deploy by literally pushing a button in Pushr's web-interface.

Pushr logs the Capistrano output into a file and updates status for configured Twitter account (the default notification).

You can setup more notifiers in <tt>config.yml</tt> file. Currently these are provided:

* IRC         (http://github.com/karmi/pushr_notifiers/blob/master/irc.rb)
* XMPP/Jabber (http://github.com/karmi/pushr_notifiers/blob/master/jabber.rb)

You can easily add more notifiers: they are modeled after _Ingerity_ notifiers (http://integrityapp.com/notifiers), so it would be very, very easy to adapt those.


== Want to try it out?

Install or update following Rubygems <b>on the local machine or server where you want to run it</b>:

    $ sudo gem install sinatra rack haml capistrano capistrano-ext thin

Rename and edit the configuration file:

    $ cp config.example.yml config.yml
    $ vim config.yml

Run the app in development mode:

    rake
    
Set up *Github Post-Receive URL* (http://github.com/guides/post-receive-hooks) in your repo's administration to:

    http://{USERNAME SET IN CONFIG}:{PASSWORD SET IN CONFIG}@{YOUR SERVER}:4000
    
Load the URL in the browser. Fill the ugly HTTP-Auth box with the credentials from <tt>config.yml</tt>.
You should see some info about deployed revision.
    
Click "Test Hook" at Github or do a <tt>git push</tt> to the git repo. You should see something POSTed in your terminal. 
Your application is updated with Capistrano. Done.

(Of course, you can use Git's post-receive hook in any repo, not just on Github. You would be <tt>curl</tt>-ing that URL or something like that then.)

If you're satisfied with what you see, you should run and control Pushr backed-up with Thin by <tt>rake start</tt>/<tt>rake stop</tt>.

Follow Twitter username you set in <tt>config.yml</tt> on Twitter for notifications. Run <tt>tail -f deploy.log</tt> to see what's really going on.

NOTE: Notifiers would require more gems, obviously, such as Jabber would require the +xmppr+ gem.

You can use Pushr without Github, obviously: you just need to setup a post-receive hook in your <tt>.git/hooks/post-receive</tt> with _curl_ or something like that.


== More information

Get more information in these articles: 

* http://www.restafari.org/pushr-or-the-application-will-deploy-itself.html (November 2008)
* http://www.restafari.org/capistrano-pushr-now-better.html (December 2008)
* http://www.restafari.org/capistrano-pushr-refactored-with-more-notifiers.html (January 2009)


== Todos

* Disable deploy with `[nodeploy]` declaration in commit message

* [!] Visualize deploy.log on webpage in a sparkline graph (succeeded/failed deploys, show relevant portion of deploy.log for each deploy, etc)

